TYPESOFFATIGUE
PERCYG.STILES,
Assistant Professor ofPhysiology inHarvard University,Harvard Medical School,Boston, Mass.
CHEMICAL processes oftwooppos-
ingorders areconceived tobegoing
oninlivingcells.Activities ofthe
firsttypeareconstructive anddependent
ultimately ontheappropriation offood.
The converse processes arethosein
whichorganic compounds arebroken
downwithreleaseofenergy. Such reac-
tionsunderlie theproduction ofheatand
work,and,insome measure, thephe-
nomena ofsecretion andabsorption. It
isevident thatnoorganism canremain
constant astoitsmassandpotentialities
saveasabalance between thesetwois
closelypreserved. Atemporary excess
ofdestruction (katabolism) over re-
newaltendstobeself-limited andthe
disturbance ofequilibrium inthisdirec-
tionmaybesaidtoconstitute fatigue.
Whentheprocesses ofrepair areas
active aspossible andthekatabolic
changes stillcounterbalance them we
have acondition inwhichthetissueis
givingitsiltaximum performance; itex-
pendsallitcanwithout progressively
fallingoffincapacity. Theheartisour
stockillustration ofanorganinwhich
expenditure andrenewal arenicelybal-
anced; wemustnote,however, thatit
doesnotcommonly work uptoitslimit
ofpower. Inarhythmic performance
likethatoftheheart wemaysaythat
fatigue andcomplete recovery alternate
atveryshortintervals, usually ofless
than onesecond. Inthebreathingmuscles thespaceoftimebetween these
extreme phasesislonger, sayfoursec-
onds.Theheartmuscleisautomatic,
therespiratory muscles arenotso,but
actuated byacenterinthemedulla. It
seemstobeaphysiological principle that
aswepassfromsimpleandelementary
mechanisms tothosewhich aremore
plexandhighlyorganized theordinary
alternation ofactiveandrestingperiods
becomes slowed. Muscles thataremuch
usedundercerebral control appear to
requirelongintervals of,relative repose.
They arecapable ofspurts sointense as
toinducelongcontinued depression. It
isafamiliar factthatwhentheutmost
effortshavebeenapplied topulling an
ergograph definitefatigue canbedemon-
stratedforanhourortwo,eventhough
thework wasdoneintwoorthreemin-
utes.
Themechanisms thatstandinclosest
relation tothecerebrum seemtohave
evolved withsomeconformity tothe
diurnalrhythm, theirmetabolism maybe
continuously abovethemeanformore
thanhalfthetwenty-four hours,butfor
aconsiderable partofthenightitmust
bereduced belowthisaverage. Where
thehighestdepartments ofourorganiza-
tionareconcerned astilllonger spanmay
intervene between thetroughoffatigue
andthecrestofrecuperation. The
weeklycycleandthebeneficent function
oftheSabbath Dayarenaturally sug-
653Badhabitsinthenervous system oftenleadto"vicious circles"
inmentalprocesses. Discipline isimportant here.Change of
sceneorsanatorium lifeisbeneficial largely initspowertoget
themindoutofits"ruts." Psychotherapy mayeffectthis.Re-
coveryfrommentalfatigueislessamatter ofcorrecting meta-
bolismthanofforming desirable habits.654 THEAMERICAN JOURNAL OFPUBLIC HEALTH
gested. Possibly anannual,decline and
recovery mayalsoberecognized.
Ifweregardfatigueasdiminished
capacity torespond tostimulation-an
elevation-of threshold-we atoncereal-
izeitsprotective value.Weseehow
theinterposition ofresistance atany
pointinfaco6rdinated systemprevents
thewearing downofassociated struc-
tures.Sucharesistance appears tobe
developed atthejunctions between nerve
andmusclewhentheyarerepeatedly
traversed. Acorresponding obstruction
in,thelineofflowissoonesiablished at
thej4nctions (synapses) between the
minuteunitsofthenervoussystem.The
weakerlinksinthechainareprobably
mosteasilyrenewed. Inthecaseofthe
synapses thereseemstobeaphysical rea-
sonforthis.Theyareregionsofgreat
attenuation oftheconducting substance;
protoplasm soorganized shouldburnout
quicklyifitistheseatofactivechemical
decomposition. Ontheotherhand,it
shouldbespeedilyrepaired becauseithas
mostextensive-surface relations withthe
surrounding fluids.
Anewpictureoftheintimatebehavior
6fmuscleunderprolonged stimulation
hasbeenfurnished byPrattofBuffalo.
Itturnsoutthatwhatwecallasustained
contraction depends onthealternating
activityofthefibersorfiber-bundles com-
posingthemuscle. Thecontractile ele-
mentsinturnbeartheirpart,dropout
ofaction,andhavingrested,springback
tothework.Theyfalloutbecausemeta-
bolicchanges havecausedtheirthres-
holdstorise.Theyresumebecausethey
havebeengranted timeforatleastpar-
tialrecovery. Thisprinciple ofworking
byshiftsisfavorable toendurance.
Whenfatigueismentioned onethinks
firstofthemuscles. thisisnatural
enough. However muchthementalmay
haveentered intomodern humanlife
most,people's activityisstillmeasurable
intermsofmechanical work.Themus-
clesformabouthalfthebodyandthey
account forperhaps four-fifths ofits
metabolism. Whentheyarevigorouslyemployed allthetissuesarefloodedwith
theirwaste-products sothatthereis'a
sympathetic depression ofglandular func-
tionandprobably ofthecerebral cur-
rentswhichattendtheintellectual pro-
cesses. Themassiveproportions ofthe
muscles mustnotbeforgotten. Their
metabolic influence canhinderthesubtle
performances ofthecortical cells-in
otherwords,bodilyfatiguecanunfitone
forapplication tomentaltasks-but the
pursuitofmentalworkcannotdevelop
greatquantities ofend-products that
shallsaturate andnarcotize themuscles.
Aperiodofmentalstressmaymakeone
disinclined toexercise butdisinclination
isnotthesamethingasincapacity. If
thereisanylossofpowerinsuchacase
itisprobably notrepresented inthe
musclesbutattheirseatofgovernment.
Cerebral processes involve butvery
smallmassesofprotoplasm andthey
aredoubtless conducted withextreme
economy. Isthereacondition whichcan
beaccurately described as"mental fa-tigue?" Weusuallyassumethatthisis
apossibility. If,however, weanalyze
ourownexperiences wehavetoadmit
asarulethatwhatwecallfatiguein
connection withthesteadyperformance
ofsomemonotonous mentaloperation is
thetendency toseekreliefinnovelty-to
admitnewandirrelevant ideas.Unless
thetrialiscarefully regulated therewill
beelements ofeye-strain orposturaldis-
comfort whichareneuromuscular rather
thanmentalinnature. Tobesure,we
eventually needtosleep,butfrequently
thedrowsiness comessoonertotheindo-
lentthantothediligently working brain.
Someofourablestexperimenters doubt
whether wecansurelydemonstrate men-
talfatigue.
Suchadoubtmightencourage the
beliefthatmentalprocesses aredefinitely
metaphysical andmakenodemandupon
thematerial organization ofthebrain.
Thisdoesnotfollow. Itismucheasier
toconceive thateventhemostrestricted
andtediouskindofcalculation employsmanyneurons inrotation anddoesnotTYPES OFFATIGUE
utilizeparticular onessoconstantly asto
impairtheirefficiency. Analogies inthis
fieldaredecidedly clumsy, butthesug-
gestion maybeventured thatthemultiple
equipment ofthecortexisatleast re-
motely comparable toa-typewriter in
whicheachkeyisnepessarily idlewhen
another hasitsturn.Thisisarather
daringtransfer tothehigherlevelsofthe
brainofPratt'spictureofthetetanized
muscleinwhichcertainunits arecontin-
uallyreplacing others. Wehavesaid
thatthismodeofworking prolongs the
endurance ofmuscle. Ifthisistrueof
atissuewithahighmetabolism itmay
wellnullifyfatigueingraymatterwhere
therateofdisintegration appears tobe
low.
Wheti anemotional element entersinto
theexperience theinception offatigue
maybefarmoreobvious thanincalm,
straightforward mentalwork. Excite-
menthasitsneuromuscular accompani-
mentsandcertainly meansaccelerated
metabolism. Animportant featureisthe
involvementt ofglandsofinternal secre-
tion,notablytheadrenalandprobably the
thyroid. Whenthesehavebeen exer-
ciseddepression istobeexpected. The
glands maybeexhausted sothatfora
timethedelivery oftheirproducts is
subnormal. Themuscles, havingpassed
through aphaseofstimulation dueto
these sameproducts, mayenter upon a
periodofreaction. Ifwemaymakeany
suppositions aboutthecomparative em-
ployment ofcortical cell-groups inor-
derlymentalworkandinemotional tur-
moilweshallbeinclined toassumethat
thelattertypeofactivityismoremassive
andprobably lessvariedindistribution
frommoment tomoment. Ifitismore
nearlycontinuous infixedpathsitmust
beaseverer taxthantheunemotional
process withitsfrequent shifting of
channels.
Consideration ofwhatiscommonly
called nervous fatiguesuggests twofac-
torsinthecondition whichshould be
keptinview.Thefirstoftheseistheprominent partplayedbyinhibitory com-
plexesinnervous systems ofthehighest
order.Maturity intheindividual and
civilization intheracedepend onthe
subjection ofmanyprimitive reactions
tocontrol. Alateacquisition isarela-
tivelyinsecure possession anditslossas
aresultofmanyformsofwearandtear
istoooftenobserved. Anervous sys-
temwhichhassuffered thislossissaid
tobefatigued thoughitshows many
signsofover-activity. Itis,inasense,
adefectofthehighestorganization that
itdoesnotregularly incline torestwhen
restisneeded. Thisperversity canbe
explained inpartonthebasisoflessened
inhibitory powers, butthereisstillan-
otherelementwhichshouldbegivendue
consideration. Theproperty referred to
isthatofcanalization.
Theutilityofthisfactorinadaptation
tdthecircumstances oflifeisreadily
recognized. Inthehuman nervous sys-
tem,farbeyond anyother,reactions are
moreeasilyexecuted asthey arere-
peated. Theprinciple isthatofhabit-
formation. Apathmaybepursued by
nerve-currents untilitssynapses develop
resistance tothecontinued transmission
andthecommon typeofcentralfatigue
ismanifested. Butsuchfatigueistran-
sient,and,whenithaspassed, thenet
resultisagreaterfacilityforconduction
inthepaththathasbeentraversed. This
adaptive quality isthebasisofaccom-
plishments ofeverykindaswellasof
mannerisms andunfortunate habits.
Canalization intheassociation systems
mustbeattherootofscholarly attain-
ment assurely as,atlowerlevels,itis
thecondition ofmanualskill.Itappears
thatthepower toformpathways of
readytransmission-in short,thepower
tolearn-and theestablishment ofover-
rulingcomplexes ofaninhibitory order
arealikecharacteristic ofhigher ascon-
trastedwithlowlier nervous systems. A
simpleorganism mayhave afewstand-
ardreactions whichwillbeserviceable
inallprobable contingencies andnopro-655THE -AMERICAN JOURNAL OF,PUBLIC HEALTH
visionfortheirrepression maybeneces-
sary.Theneedforinhibition comes
withthedevelopment ofnumerous alter-
nativereactions andisespecially valuable
asacheck onthecanalization cap'acity
whichtendstomake"ruts"inthebrain.
Thisisrather anacademic statement of
something whichWilliam Jameslongago
showed tobeamostpractical matter.
INowthepicturepresented bythevic-
timofwhat wecallnervous fatigue sug-
geststwodifficulties. Oneisthewant
ofinhibitory control. Thisisexhibited
inthefamiliar unrest,and,ontheaffer-
entside,ashypersensitiveness. Thesec-
ondfeatureofthetroubleiscanalization.
The"tired" nervous systemhasformed
badhabits. These arediscovered not
onlyinconduct butinunhappy trainsof
thought, incessant anxiety andself-pity.
Important asitmaybeinsuchcasesto
build upthegeneral health, wecansee
thatthecriticalneedisdiscipline. Change
ofsceneandsanatorium lifemaybe
chieflyuseful astheyfavorthedisruption
ofthenerve-paths soexcessively em-
ployed. Psychotherapy mayeffectthis.
Thisapplication maybeintheabstract
termsofsomeidealistic system orthe
verysamejostling fromthegrooves may
beaccomplished withameasure ofharsh-
ness.Themoreinsight onegainsinto
theworkings ofthenervous apparatus
thelessoneissurprised bythecompara-
tivelyrapidreadjustments which may
oftenbeaccomplished init.Perhaps the
mostinjurious canalizations havethe
character ofclosedcircuits inwhicheverydischarge reacts uponthecells
originally concerned andcompels themto
renewtheiractivity. This seems tobe
thematerial concomitant inthenumerous
caseswhichyieldtoFreudian psycho-
analysis. Thecircular flowofnerve-im-
pulsesneedstobeiverted tosomechan-
nelofexpression thatitmaynolonger
returnpersistently toitsownsource.
Summary. Fatigue, ingeneral, isde-
pression ofworking capacity, owing to
akatabolism running abovetheaverage
forthetissue. Inmuscleitisjustthis.
Muscular fatigue, because ofthelarge
masses ofactiveprotoplasm involved,
canextenditsinfluence toothersystems.
Innarrowly localized brainactivity the
metabolic process cannotbelargeand
truecerebral fatigueisprobably farless
common thanissupposed. Theuseof
different cell-groups inrotation maymin-
imizethedemand uponeachmember.
Theordinary causeofdiminishing
mental efficiency isthedesirefora
change. Inareasonably trained system
thisisawholesome impulse. What we
callnervous fatigue, referring toacon-
ditionwhichispathological andoftenof
longduration, isdueprimarily toless-
enedinhibition. Manyofitsfeatures
aresymptomatic ofbadhabitsestablished
intheill-controlled system. Unusual
outflowing currents maypervert the
actionoftheendocrine organs. Recov-
eryfrom'nervous fatigueislessamatter
ofcorrecting themetabolism thanof
desirable habitformation.
OnlyFortyDaystotheMeeting
atSanFrancisco!
September 13-15,1920.
Shallyoubethere?656

 This is the end of the 1 text 

